Main Goal of the project

1. Implement a distributed machine learning application using the cloud infrastructure.
2. we want to train a model using gradient descent algorithm in the cloud environment
3. a) training set is large.
   b) data is too big to fit in a single machine's memory
   c) By doing the computation in a cluster of machines, using the memory, computation power, cores etc would accelerate any kind of training algorithm.
   d) If the training set is reasonably large, the network communication cost to accumulate the batch result would be amortized.
   e) More specifically we are planning to implement Gradient Descent algorithm in a cloud environment.

Approach :

1. Load the data set in a storage system (Amazon S3), this storage should be accessible from all the machines in the cluster.
2. We need to find a way to divide the data sets into p parts assuming cluster size p. 
3. In case the assigned data set on a particular machine does not fit into memory, we need to find a way to load data batch wise in memory to make computation faster.
4. We would use c++ for implementation as file read write would be much faster.
5. To accumulate the partial result of each machine, we can use MPI (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_Passing_Interface).   

Benefits : 

1. Training time would be faster.
2. Developers would face the challenges and complication of implementing scalable distributed machine learning algorithms.
3. As the training time would be order of magniture faster, users can train model in a short period time.
4. After successful implementation of this project developers might try to find solution of more complex distributed machine learing algorithms.

Competition :

The competition is mainly with the data set size. By leveraging the computation power of a cluster we can train model with reasonably short period of time. 


Cloud Features :

1. Amazon EC2 instance
2. Amazon S3 for storage
3. The most important thing, training would be done once. After that we can release the resources. 

Cost Benefit and Analysis :

We can copy this from guimu proposal.

Planned Project timeline :

Need to discuss with the other team members to finalize it.
